Hi again! This is the solution to exercise 58.
And in this exercise you were asked to add a new employee to the Jason File which I provided
in the previous article, so that's the json file. Company1.
dot json. Let me play this to the right, so that we can see both the Python script and the json file.
So json file now has Albert Bert as new employee there.
So let me explain the script.
And so I'm using the json library here and then I'm opening
company1.json in read and write mode.
So r+ means read and write mode.
And I create a dictionary using Json.loads methods.
So file.read is gonna be this string.
So the text of course without the Albert Bert dictionary values.
See you this string is loaded as a dictionary using json.loads.
So json.loads converts a string to a dictionary object.
I'm doing this because I think this is the best way to add a new item to this big dictionary.
So we have a big dictionary here which is constructed of lists, anyway and what I do is I'm accessing
employees
the value of the employees key.
So this is dictionary.
And with d.employees I access this list.
So with all these names John, Anna, and Peter. So up to here we have a list and then we use the list method
called append.
And so we are appending now we need to append a new dictionary to this list.
So we have three dictionaries.
These are dictionaries with this key and this value, with this key and this value.
And so we need to append a dictionary.
So that's what I'm doing in here.
I'm creating a dictionary using the dict function and I'm creating a key called first name.
So these has to be the same as these ones
in here. First name Albert and last name Bert.
So two keys and two values, so that dictionary will be appended to this list which is a value of this
big dictionary.
So up to this point we have a new dictionary.
So we have this big dictionary that you see in here.
Now from now one we want to write that dictionary to the json file and here I'm using file.seek
and zero there what that does is it puts the cursor to the top of a file which means you know
when you read a file we open the file and we read the file contents and the cursor goes at end of the
file.
So just here.
So at this point the cursor is in here which means that if you want to write some content in here that's
content with be written under these lines.
But I don't want to do that so I want to put the cursor up here again.
So everything I do now it writes in here above the existing contents. So files.seek(0) does just
that, puts the cursor at the top of the file.
What I do is I use json.dump to put this dictionary object to write the dictionary object in this
file.
So in this file that we have opened and I use this indent option here. Arguments, I set it to 4.
So to have four spaces as indentation, then I sort the keys, so sort keys equal to true means that's the
string that will be written in the json file will have the same order as the dictionary.
And so what this will do, it will get the dictionary so  the dictionary including Albert. It will get
the dictionary and it will put in the current position of the cursor.
So it will put the dictionary on top of the existing content of the file.
So it's like copying these and putting all that in here and then the cursor is at the end of the dictionary
that you have just inserted there.
But I don't want to do is you use file.truncate which what it does is it truncates, so it deletes everything
under the cursor.
So what you end up is the dictionary, the updated dictionary in the json file. That's the solution.
I know it was quite complicated, but feel free to rewatch this video and ask questions if you, if there is
something you don't understand.
And yeah, thanks again, and I'll talk to you later.